chief justice roberts vice president harris speaker pelosi leader schumer lynda mcconnell vice president pence my distinguished guest my 
fellow americans this is america's day this is democracy's day a day of history and hope of renewal and resolve through a crucible for 
the ages america has been tested a new and america has risen to the challenge today we celebrate the triumph not of a candidate but of a 
cause the cause of democracy the people the will of the people has been heard and the will of the people has been heeded we've learned 
again that democracy is precious democracy is fragile at this hour my friends democracy has prevailed so now on this hallowed ground 
were just a few days ago violence sought to shake the capitol's very foundation we come together as one nation under god indivisible to 
carry out the peaceful transfer of power as we have for more than two centuries as we look ahead in our uniquely american way
restless bold optimistic and set our sights on the nation we know we can be and we must be i thank my predecessors of both parties for 
their presence here today i thank them from the bottom of my heart and i know and i know the resilience of our constitution and the 
strength the strength of our nation as does president carter who i spoke with last night who cannot be with us today but whom we salute 
for his lifetime in service i've just taken the sacred oath each of those patriots have taken the oath first sworn by george washington 
but the american story depends not on any one of us not on some of us but on all of us on we the people who seek a more perfect union 
this is a great nation we are good people and over the centuries through storm and strife in peace and in war we've come so far but we 
still have far to go we'll press forward with speed and urgency for we have much to do in this winter of peril and significant
possibilities much to repair much to restore much to heal much to build and much to gain few people in our nation's history have been 
more challenged or found a time more challenging or difficult than the time we're in now once in a century virus that silently stalks 
the country has taken as many lives in one year as america lost in all of world war II millions of jobs have been lost hundreds of 
thousands of businesses closed a cry for racial justice some 400 years in the making moves us the dream of justice for all will be 
deferred no longer a cry for survival comes from planet itself a cry that can't be any more desperate or any more clear and now a rise 
of political extremism white supremacy domestic terrorism that we must confront and we will defeat to overcome these challenges to 
restore the soul and secure the future of america  requires so much more than words requires the most elusive of all things in a 
democracy unity unity in another january on new year's day in 1863 abraham lincoln signed the emancipation proclamation when he put pen 
to paper the president said and i quote  if my name ever goes down into history it'll be for this act and my whole soul is in it my 
whole soul is in it today on this january day my whole soul is in this bringing america together uniting our people united in our nation 
and i ask every american to join me in this cause uniting to fight the foes we face anger resentment and hatred extremism lawlessness 
violence disease joblessness and hopelessness with unity we can do great things important things we can right wrongs we can put people 
to work in good jobs we can teach our children in safe schools we can overcome the deadly virus we can reward reward work and rebuild 
the middle class and make health care secure for all we can deliver racial justice and we can make america once again the leading force 
for good in the world i know speaking of unity can sound to some like a foolish fantasy these days i know the forces that divide us are 
deep and they are real but i also know they are not new our history has been a constant struggle between the american ideal that we're 
all are created equal and the harsh ugly reality that racism nativism fear demonization have long torn us apart the battle is perennial 
and victory is never assured through civil war the great depression world war 9 11 through struggle sacrifice and setbacks our better 
angels have always prevailed in each of these moments enough of us enough of us have come together to carry all of us forward and we can 
do that now history faith and reason show the way the way of unity we can see each other not as adversaries but as neighbors we can 
treat each other with dignity and respect we can join forces stop the shouting and lower the temperature for without unity there is no 
peace only bitterness and fury no progress only exhausting outrage no nation only a state of chaos this is our historic moment of crisis 
and challenge and unity is the path forward and we must meet this moment as the united states of america if we do that i guarantee you 
we will not fail we have never ever ever ever failed in america when we've acted together and so today at this time in this place let's 
start a fresh all of us let's begin to listen to one another again hear one another see one another show respect to one another politics 
doesn't have to be a raging fire destroying everything in his path every disagreement doesn't have to be a cause for total war and we 
must reject the culture in which facts themselves are manipulated and even manufactured my fellow americans we have to be different than 
this america has to be better than this and i believe america is so much better than this just look around here we stand in the shadow 
of the capital dome as was mentioned earlier completed amid the civil war when the union itself was literally hanging in the balance yet 
we endured we prevailed here we stand looking out on the great mall where dr king spoke of his dream here we stand we're 108 years ago 
at another inaugural thousands of protesters tried to block brave women marching for the right to vote and today we mark the swearing-in 
of the first woman in american history elected to national office vice president kamala harris don't tell me things can't change here we 
stand across the potomac from arlington cemetery where heroes who gave the last full measure of devotion rest in eternal peace and here 
we stand just days after a riotous mob thought they could use violence to silence the will of the people to stop the work of our 
democracy to drive us from this sacred ground it did not happen it will never happen not today not tomorrow not ever not ever all those 
who supported our campaign i'm humbled by the faith you've placed in us to all those who did not support us let me say this hear me out 
as we move forward take a measure of me and my heart if you still disagree so be it that's democracy that's america the right to dissent 
peaceably then the guard rails of our republic is perhaps this nation's greatest strength yet hear me clearly this agreement must not 
lead to disunion and i pledge this to you i will be a president for all americans all americans and i promise you i will fight as hard 
for those who did not support me as for those who did many centuries ago saint augustine a saint of my church wrote that a people was a 
multitude defined by the common objects of their love defined by the common objects of their love what are the common objects we as 
americans love that define us as americans i think we know opportunity security liberty dignity respect honor and yes the truth recent 
weeks and months have taught us a painful lesson there is truth and there are lies lies toll for power and for profit and each of us has 
a duty and a responsibility as citizens as americans and especially as leaders leaders who have ledged to honor our constitution and 
protect our nation to defend the truth and defeat the lies look i understand that many of my fellow americans view the future was fear 
and trepidation i understand they worry about their jobs i understand like my dad they lay a bed staring at the night staring at the 
ceiling wondering can i keep my health care can i pay my mortgage thinking about their families about what comes next i promise you i 
get it but the answer is not to turn inward to retreat into competing factions distrusting those who don't look like look like you or 
worship the way you do or don't get their news from the same sources you do we must end this uncivil war that pits red against blue
rural versus ireland or rural versus urban conservative versus liberal we can do this if we open our souls instead of hardening our 
hearts if we show a little tolerance and humility and if we're willing to stand in the other person's shoes as my mom would say just for 
a moment stand in their shoes because here's the thing about life there's no accounting for what fate will deal you some days when you 
need a hand there are other days when we're called to lend a hand that's how it has to be it's what we do for one another and if we are 
this way our country will be stronger more prosperous more ready for the future and we can still disagree my fellow americans and the 
work ahead of us we're going to need each other we need all our strength to preser to persevere through this dark winter we're entering 
what may be the toughest and deadliest period of the virus we must set aside politics and finally face this pandemic as one nation one 
nation and i promise you this as the bible says weeping may endure for a night but joy cometh in the morning we will get through this 
together together look folks all my colleagues i serve with in the house and the senate up here we all understand the world is watching 
watching all of us today so here's my message of those beyond our borders america has been tested and we've come out stronger for it we 
will repair our alliances and engage with the world once again not to meet yesterday's challenges but today's and tomorrow's challenges 
and will lead not merely by the example of our power but by the power of our example we'll be a strong and trusted partner for peace 
progress and security look you all know we've been through so much in this nation  and my first act as president i'd like to ask you to 
join me in a moment of silent prayer remember all those who we lost this past year to the pandemic those four hundred  thousand fellow 
americans moms dads husbands wives sons daughters friends neighbors and co-workers we'll honor them by becoming the people and the 
nation we know we can and should be so i ask you let's say a silent prayer for those who've lost their lives and those left behind and 
for our country amen folks this is a time of testing we face an attack under democracy and untruth a raging virus growing inequity the 
sting of systemic racism a climate in crisis  america's role in the world any one of these would be enough to challenge us in profound 
ways but the fact is we face them all at once presenting this nation with the one of the greatest responsibilities we've had now we're 
going to be tested are we going to step up all of us it's time for boldness for there's so much to do and this is certain i promise you 
we will be judged you and i by how we resolve these cascading crises of our era we will rise to the occasion is the question will we 
master this rare and difficult hour when we meet our obligations and pass along a new and better world to our children i believe we must 
i'm sure you do as well i believe we will and when we do we'll write the next great chapter in the history of the united states of 
america the american story a story that might sound something like a song that means a lot to me it's called american anthem there's one 
verse that stands out at least for me and it goes like this the work and prayers of century have brought us to this day what shall be 
our legacy what will our children say let me know in my heart when my days are through america america i gave my best to you let's add 
let's us add our own work and prayers to the unfolding story of our great nation if we do this then when our days are through our 
children and our children's children will save us they gave their best they did their duty they healed the broken land
my fellow americans i closed the day where i began with the sacred oath before god and all of you i give you my word i will always level 
with you i will defend the constitution i'll defend our democracy i'll defend america and i'll give all all of you keep everything you i 
do in your service thinking not of power but of possibilities not a personal interest but the public good and together we shall write an 
american story of hope not fear of unity not division of light not darkness a story of decency and dignity love and healing greatness 
and goodness may this be the story that guides us the story that inspires us and the story that tells ages yet to come that we answer 
the call of history we met the moment democracy and hope truth and justice did not die in our watch but thrive that america secured 
liberty at home and stood once again as a beacon to the world that is what we owe our forebearers one another and generation to follow 
so with purpose and resolve we turn to those tasks of our time sustained by faith driven by conviction and devoted to one another and 
the country we love with all our hearts may god bless america and may god protect our troops thank you America