thank you all chief justice rehnquist President Carter President Bush president clinton distinguished guests and my fellow citizens the peaceful 
transfer of authority is rare in history yet common in our country with a simple oath we affirm old traditions and make new beginnings as I 
began I thanked President Clinton for his service to our nation and I thank Vice President Gore for a contest conducted with spirit and ended 
with grace I am honored and humbled to stand here where so many of America's leaders have come before me and so many will follow we have a place 
all of us in a long story a story we continue but whose end we will not see it is a story of a new world that became a friend and liberator of 
the old the story of a slaveholding society that became a servant of freedom the story of a power that went into the world to protect but not 
possess to defend but not to conquer it is the American story a story of flawed and fallible people united across the generations by grand and 
enduring ideals the grandest of these ideals is an unfolding American promise that everyone belongs that everyone deserves a chance that no 
insignificant person was ever born Americans are called to enact as promised in our lives and in our laws and though our nation has sometimes 
halted and sometimes delayed we must follow no other course through much of the last century America's faith in freedom and  democracy was a 
rock in a raging sea now it is the seed upon the wind taking root in many nations our democratic faith is more than the Creed of our country it 
is the inborn hope of our humanity an ideal we carry but do not own a trust we bear and pass along evany even after nearly 225 years we have a 
long way yet to travel while many of our citizens prosper others doubt the promise even the Justice of our own country the ambitions of some 
Americans are limited by failing schools and hidden prejudice and the circumstances of their birth and sometimes our differences runs so deep it 
seems we share a continent but not a country we do not accept this and we will not allow it our unity our union is
the serious work of leaders and citizens and every generation and this is my solemn pledge I will work to build a single nation of justice and 
opportunity I know this was in our reach because we are guided by a power larger than ourselves who creates us equal in His image and we are 
confident in principles that unite and lead us onward America has never been united by blood or birth or soil we are bound by ideals that move 
us beyond our backgrounds lift us above
our interests and teaches what it means to be citizens every child must be taught these principles every citizen must uphold them every 
immigrant by embracing these ideals makes our country more not less American today today we affirm a new commitment to live out our nation's 
promise through civility courage compassion and character America at its best matches a commitment to principle with a concern for civility a 
civil society demands from each of us goodwill and respect fair dealing and forgiveness some seem to believe that our politics can afford to be 
petty because in a time of peace the stakes of our debates appear small but the stakes for America are never small if our country does not lead 
the cause of freedom it will not be led if we do not turn the hearts of children toward knowledge and character we will lose their gifts and 
undermine their idealism if we permit our economy to drift and decline the vulnerable will suffer most we must live up to the calling we share 
civility is not a tactic or a sentiment it is the determined choice of trust over cynicism of community over chaos and this commitment if we 
keep it is a way to share it accomplishment America it as best is also courageous our our national courage has been clear in times of depression 
and war when defeating common dangers defined our common good now we must choose at the example of our fathers and mothers will inspire us or 
condemn us we must show courage in a time of blessing by confronting problems instead of passing them on to future generations together we will 
reclaim America's schools before ignorance and apathy claim more young lives we will reform Social Security and Medicare sparing our children 
from struggles we have the power to prevent and will reduce taxes to recover the momentum of our economy and reward the effort and enterprise of 
working Americans we will build our defenses beyond challenge less weakness and vitality we will confront weapons of mass destruction so that a 
new century aspired new Horace the enemies of Liberty in our country should make no mistake America remains engaged in the world by history and 
by choice shaping a  balance of power that favors freedom we will defend our allies and our interests we will show purpose without arrogance we 
will meet aggression and bad faith with resolve and strength and all nations we will speak for the values that gave our nation birth America at 
its best is compassionate in the quiet of American conscience we know that deep persistent poverty is unworthy of our nation's promise and 
whatever our views of its cause we can agree that  children at risk are not at fault abandonment and abuse are not acts of God they are failures 
of love and the proliferation of prisons however necessary is no substitute for hope and order in our souls where there are
suffering there is duty Americans in  need are not strangers they are citizens not problems but priorities and all of us are diminished when any 
are hopeless government has great responsibilities for public safety and public health for civil rights a common schools yet compassion is the 
work of a nation not just a government and some needs and herds are so deep they will only respond to a mentors touch or a pastors prayer church 
and charity synagogue and mosque lend our communities their humanity and  they will have an honored place in our plans and in our laws many in 
our country do not know the pain of poverty but we can listen to those who do and I can pledge our nation to a goal when we see that wounded 
traveler on the road to Jericho we will not pass to the other side America at its best as a place where personal responsibility is valued and 
expected encouraging responsibility is not a search for scapegoats it is a call to conscience and though it requires sacrifice it brings a 
deeper fulfillment we find the fullness of life not only in options but in commitments and we find that children and community are the 
commitments that set us free our public interest depends on private character on civic duty and family bonds and basic fairness on uncounted on 
honored acts of decency which give direction to our freedom sometimes in life were called to do great things but as the saint of our
times has said everyday we are called to do small things with great love the most important tasks of a democracy are done by everyone I will 
live and lead by these principles to advance my convictions with civility to preserve the public interests with courage to speak for greater 
justice and compassion to call for responsibility and try to live it as well and all these days ways I will bring the values of our history to 
the care of our times what you do is as important as anything government does I ask you to seek a common good beyond your comfort to defend 
needed reforms against the easy attacks to serve your nation beginning with your neighbor I ask you to be citizens citizens not spectators 
citizens not subjects responsible citizens building communities of service and a nation of character Americans are generous and strong and 
decent not because we believe in ourselves but because we hold beliefs beyond ourselves when the spirit of citizenship is missing no government 
program can replace it when this spirit is present no wrong can stand against it after the Declaration of Independence was signed Virginia 
statesman John page wrote to Thomas Jefferson we know the race is not to the Swift nor the battle to the strong do you not think an angel rides 
in the whirlwind and directs this storm much time has passed since Jefferson arrived for his inauguration the years and changes accumulated but 
the themes of this day he would know our nation's grand story of courage and it's simple dream of dignity we are not this story's author who 
fills time and eternity with his purpose yet his purpose is achieved in our duty and our duty is ulfilled in service to one another never tiring 
never yielding never finishing we renew that purpose today to make our country more just and generous to affirm the dignity of our lives and 
every life this work continues the story goes on and an angel still rides in the whirlwind and directs this storm god bless you all and God 
bless america