Chief Justice Roberts President Carter President Clinton President Bush President Obama fellow Americans and people of the world thank 
you we the citizens of America are now joined in a great national effort to rebuild our country and restore its promise for all of our 
people together we will determine the course of America and the world for many many years to come we will face challenges we will 
confront hardships but we will get the job done every four years we gather on these steps to carry out the orderly and peaceful transfer 
of power and we are grateful to President Obama and first lady Michelle Obama for their gracious aid throughout this transition they 
have been magnificent thank you today's ceremony however has very special meaning because today we are not merely transferring power 
from one administration to another or from one party to another but we are transferring power from Washington DC and giving it back to 
you the people for too long a small group in our nation's capital has reaped the rewards of government while the people have borne the 
cost Washington flourished but the people did not share in its wealth politicians prospered but the jobs left and the factories closed 
the establishment protected itself but not the citizens of our country their victories have not been your victories their triumphs have 
not been your triumphs and while they celebrated in our nation's capital there was little to celebrate for struggling families all 
across our land that all changes starting right here and right now because this moment is your moment it belongs to you it belongs to 
everyone gathered here today and everyone watching all across America this is your day this is your celebration and this the United 
States of America is your country what truly matters is not which party controls our government but whether our government is controlled 
by the people January 20th 2017 will be remembered as the day the people became the rulers of this nation again The Forgotten men and 
women of our country will be forgotten no longer everyone is listening to you now you came by the tens of millions to become part of a 
historic movement the likes of which the world has never seen before at the center of this movement is a crucial conviction that a 
nation exists to serve its citizens Americans want great schools for their children safe neighborhoods for their families and good jobs 
for themselves these are just and reasonable demands of righteous people and a righteous public but for too many of our citizens a 
different reality exists mothers and children trapped in poverty in our inner cities rusted out factories scattered like tombstones 
across the landscape of our nation an education system flush with cash but which leaves our young and beautiful students deprived of all 
knowledge and the crime and the gangs and the drugs that have stolen too many lives and robbed our country of so much unrealized 
potential this American carnage stops right here and stops right now we are one nation and their pain is our pain their dreams are our 
dreams and their success will be our success we share one heart one home and one glorious destiny the oath of office I take today is an 
oath of allegiance to all Americans for many decades we've enriched foreign industry at the expense of American industry subsidize the 
armies of other countries while allowing for the very sad depletion of our military we've defended other nations borders while refusing 
to defend our own and spent trillions and trillions of dollars overseas while America's infrastructure has fallen into disrepair and 
decay we've made other countries rich while the wealth strength and confidence of our country has dissipated over the horizon one by one 
the factory shuttered and left our shores with not even a thought about the millions and millions of American workers that were left 
behind the wealth of our middle class has been ripped from their homes and then redistributed all across the world but that is the past 
and now we are looking only to the future we assembled here today are issuing a new decree to be heard in every city in every foreign 
capital and in every Hall of power from this day forward a new vision will govern our land from this day forward it's going to be only  
America first America first every decision on trade on taxes  on immigration on Foreign Affairs will be made to benefit American workers 
and American families we must protect our borders from the ravages of other countries making our products stealing our companies and 
destroying our jobs protection will lead to great prosperity and strength I will fight for you with every breath in my body and I will 
never ever let you down America will start winning again winning  like never before we will bring back our jobs we will bring back our 
borders we will bring back our wealth and we will bring back our dreams we will build new roads and highways and bridges and airports 
and tunnels and railways all across our wonderful nation we will get our people off of welfare and back to work rebuilding our country 
with American hands and American labor we will follow two simple rules by American and hire American we will seek friendship and 
goodwill with the nations of the world but we do so with the understanding that it is the right of all nations to put their own 
interests first we do not seek to impose our way of life on anyone but rather to let it shine as an example we will shine for  everyone 
to follow we will reinforce old alliances and form new ones and unite the civilized world against radical Islamic terrorism which we 
will eradicate completely from the face of the earth at the bedrock of our politics will be a total allegiance to the United States of 
America and through our loyalty to our country we will rediscover our loyalty to each other when you open your heart to patriotism there 
is no room for prejudice the Bible tells us how good and pleasant it is when God's people live together in unity we must speak our minds 
openly debate our disagreements honestly but always pursue solidarity when America is united America is totally unstoppable there should 
be no fear we are protected and we will always be protected we will be protected by the great men and women of our military and law 
enforcement and most importantly we will be protected by God finally we must think big and dream even bigger in America we understand 
that a nation is only living as long as it is striving we will no longer accept politicians who are all talk and no action constantly 
complaining but never doing anything about it the time for empty talk is over now arrives the hour of action do not allow anyone to tell 
you that it cannot be done no challenge can match the heart and fight and spirit of America we will not fail our country will thrive and 
prosper again we stand at the birth of a new millenium ready to unlock the mysteries of space to free the earth from the miseries of 
disease and to harness the energies industries and technologies of tomorrow a new national pride will stir ourselves lift our sights and 
heal our divisions it's time to remember that old wisdom our soldiers will never forget that whether we are black or brown or white we 
all bleed the same red blood of patriots we all enjoy the same glorious freedoms and we all salute the same great American flag and 
whether a child is born in the urban sprawl of Detroit or the windswept plains of Nebraska they look up at the same night sky they fill 
their heart with the same dreams and they are infused with the breath of life by the same Almighty Creator so to all Americans in every 
city near and far small and large from Mountain to mountain from ocean to ocean hear these words you will never be ignored again your 
voice your hopes and your dreams will define our American destiny and your courage and goodness and love will forever guide us along the 
way together we will make America strong again we will make America wealthy again we will make America proud again we will make America 
safe again and yes together we will make America great again thank you god bless you and God bless america thank you god bless america